ref: update `stage list` refs. (#2369)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/stage/list.md

                      [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets       Limit command scope to these dvc.yaml files,
                directories (with -R), or stage names.
                './dvc.yaml' by default.
```

> See [`targets`](#options) for more details.

## Description

Prints a list of stages including their names and a one-line description (which
can be omitted using `--names-only`). This command is useful for discovering or
reviewing what stages are present in the project without having to examine

> `dvc.yaml` files manually. It can also be a shorter alternative to `dvc dag`.

Reviewer: shorter sounds like command itself is shorter, also, I doubt this reference is important, let's focus on the list itself?

Author: Removed `dag` ref.

                      [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets       Limit command scope to these dvc.yaml files,
                directories (with -R), or stage names.
                './dvc.yaml' by default.
```

> > See [`targets`](#options) for more details.

Reviewer: we don't use anywhere else? let's not complicate it with Notes?

Author: We use it in https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/repro @shcheklein. I remember we decided to put it there so the user doesn't miss the `targets` section in **Options**. Added here for that same reason and for consistency with the `repro` ref.

Reviewer: kk

## Description

> Prints a summarized list of stages including their names and a one-line

Reviewer: `summarized` - do we need this word?

Author: Removed "summarized".

description (which can be omitted using `--names-only`). This command is useful
for discovering or reviewing what stages are present in the project without
having to examine `dvc.yaml` files manually. It can also be a shorter
alternative to `dvc dag`.

Without any `targets`, `dvc stage list` lists the stages from `./dvc.yaml` (in
the current working directory) by default.

The stage description is read from the `desc` field in `dvc.yaml` (truncated to
80 characters) if it exists. Otherwise, DVC generates one with the stage's most
important characteristics (dependencies, outputs, or metrics).

> > (ℹ️) DVC uses this command to provide

Reviewer: not sure this Nore is important

Author: Me neither. Removed note about shell completion.

> [shell tab completion](/doc/install/completion).

## Options

> - `targets` (optional command argument) - where to look for stages to list

Reviewer: `where to look` is not correct here I believe. Btw, what is the motivation to revisit this? :) Would be great to outline it in the PR description. Copy edits? Fixes? etc

Author: > where to look is not correct here

Changed to "location of the stages to list"

Author: > Btw, what is the motivation to revisit this? :) Would be great to outline it in the PR description. Copy edits? Fixes? etc

I have updated the PR description @shcheklein .

DVC also uses this command to provide autocompletion in `bash` and `zsh`.
> (ℹ️) DVC uses this command to provide
> [shell tab completion](/doc/install/completion).

## Options

- `targets` (optional command argument) - stages to list from (`./dvc.yaml` by
  default). Different things can be provided as targets depending on the flags
  used (more details in each option). Examples:
- `targets` (optional command argument) - where to look for stages to list
  (`./dvc.yaml` by default). Examples:

  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file
  - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory to explore recursively for stages
  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage(s) from `./dvc.yaml`
  - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage(s) from a specific
    `dvc.yaml` file

  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file to list from
  - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory path to explore recursively for
    `dvc.yaml` files
  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage name or a
    [foreach group](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)
    in `./dvc.yaml`

>   - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage or a

Reviewer: what is the reason removing this?

Author: > reason removing this?

To avoid the term "foreach group" (explained in the updated PR desc.)

Reviewer: I think it was beneficial to have that reference, it might be fine to use `foreach group` here?

Author: > I think it was beneficial to have that reference

If we just say "specific stage" (like now) and the official term we use for these "groups" is "foreach stage", then it can be inferred that they can be targets too, as they are a kind of "(specific) stage". It's not an obvious inference but I'm not sure why emphasize foreach stages here. Why `list` or `repro` them in groups, if they're not groups?

> might be fine to use foreach group here

Same Q @shcheklein. I thought they were not meant to be groups in any way (at least originally) i.e. that treating them as groups was a misuse of the feature.

---

To be clear, I've always been of the idea that they are in fact groups as currently implemented (see "wide stage" concept in https://github.com/iterative/dvc/issues/5440). But so far we have specifically avoided documenting that, so it seems contradictory to treat them as such here. I'd be happy to revisit that separately though!

                      [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets       Limit command scope to these dvc.yaml files,
                directories (with -R), or stage names.
                './dvc.yaml' by default.
```

> See [`targets`](#options) for more details.

## Description

Prints a summarized list of stages including their names and a one-line
description (which can be omitted using `--names-only`). This command is useful
for discovering or reviewing what stages are present in the project without
having to examine `dvc.yaml` files manually. It can also be a shorter
alternative to `dvc dag`.

Without any `targets`, `dvc stage list` lists the stages from `./dvc.yaml` (in
the current working directory) by default.

The stage description is read from the `desc` field in `dvc.yaml` (truncated to
80 characters) if it exists. Otherwise, DVC generates one with the stage's most
important characteristics (dependencies, outputs, or metrics).

> (ℹ️) DVC uses this command to provide
> [shell tab completion](/doc/install/completion).

## Options

- `targets` (optional command argument) - where to look for stages to list
  (`./dvc.yaml` by default). Examples:

>   - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file to list from

Reviewer 2: Might not need "to list from"? Feel free to ignore.

```suggestion
  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file
```

>   - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory path to explore recursively for

Reviewer 2: I can see changing the directory from the previous example to anticipate the recursive use case, but I think it's a lot easier to digest if we reuse the examples, and we mention it searches recursively. 

I'd also take out `path` since it's not used in the line above, but that's very minor.

```suggestion
  - `dvc stage list -R linear/`: Directory to explore recursively for
```

Author: Removing "path". But I think usually some variation in examples can help people understand things implicitly.

>     stages

Reviewer 2: Why this change? `dvc.yaml` files seemed a more accurate description of `where to look for stages to list`.

Author: Hmmm yeah maybe. I'm not convinced though. The point here is that multiple directories will be searched, and we're searching for stages. The fact that there can only be one dvc.yaml file per dir is a coincidence.

Also for consistency with the `repro` ref.

Reviewer 2: Okay, I don't feel that strongly here.

> dvc.lock files are also involved in the search

Is that true? Can a `dvc.lock` file be a target?

Author: > Can a dvc.lock file be a target?

No. I meant that they have to be checked along with dvc.yaml even if your target is a stage name.

  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage(s) from `./dvc.yaml`

>   - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage(s) from a specific

Reviewer 2: Again, I think it's easier to digest if it's consistent. I'm okay with having different stage names since there are different `dvc.yaml` paths, but IMO using the same stage name is probably better, too, since it's otherwise a bit hard to tell that the part after the colon is a stage name. If you prefer different stage names, I'm fine with it.

```suggestion
  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml:train-model`: Stage(s) from a specific
```

Author: > okay with having different stage names
but IMO using the same stage name is probably better

Did you mean different dirs but same stage name? Or vice versa 🙂 

In any case I like the variation and it should be clear that the part before `:` is a path to a dvc.yaml file.

You may be right but this seems subjective so I'd err on the side of keeping it as-is (I didn't change that in this PR). Or we can ask someone to cast a deciding vote.

                      [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets       Limit command scope to these dvc.yaml files,
                directories (with -R), or stage names.

>                 './dvc.yaml' by default.

Author: Not 100% sure about this, using the "Limit command scope..." for consistency but could be different too. Or I can make a separate PR after this to get rid of that phrase everywhere.

- [ ] Will need core update

Reviewer: Looks fine to me

for discovering or reviewing what stages are present in the project without
having to examine `dvc.yaml` files manually. It can also be a shorter
alternative to `dvc dag`.

Without any `targets`, `dvc stage list` lists the stages from `./dvc.yaml` (in
the current working directory) by default.

The stage description is read from the `desc` field in `dvc.yaml` (truncated to
80 characters) if it exists. Otherwise, DVC generates one with the stage's most
important characteristics (dependencies, outputs, or metrics).

> (ℹ️) DVC uses this command to provide
> [shell tab completion](/doc/install/completion).

## Options

- `targets` (optional command argument) - where to look for stages to list
  (`./dvc.yaml` by default). Examples:

  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file to list from
  - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory path to explore recursively for
    stages
  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage in `./dvc.yaml`. Supports
    [`foreach` stage](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)
    names.
  - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage in a specific `dvc.yaml`

>     file. Supports `foreach` stage names.

Author: Pending https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2245#pullrequestreview-632942351 we could keep the "group" term, or reinstate it in a broader update (including to https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages).

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

## Example: List stages
## Examples:

> Listing stages from the default `./dvc.yaml` file from the repo.

Reviewer: `Default` is a better term to my mind. Again, what is the reason/motivation for this PR. may be I'm missing the context

Author: OK, but there can only be one `./dvc.yaml` file, so it doesn't make sense to put "default" before that. Changed to

> The default behavior is to list stages from `./dvc.yaml`

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

## Examples:

> The base case is to list stages from `./dvc.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: Seems like there should be integration between this section and the `targets` option. At least, they should be part of a common example repo structure with the same `dvc.yaml` files, directories, and stage names. Maybe one should also reference the other so it's clear where to see more in-depth examples?

Reviewer 2: Would this be a more appropriate place to include the `foreach` content (https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2245#discussion_r614368197)?

Author: > integration between this section and the targets option

OK context: Actually `targets` is not an option (it's the one required argument) and I was kind of opposed originally to put in under **Options**, but @skshetry and @shcheklein beat my vote. They were right in that it's gotten so complex that it needs to be explained in detail but we also didn't want to introduce an **Arguments** section just for that.

Your idea of an example (hypothetical I assume) repo structure to demo al the kinds of targets is great but that would be even longer that the current bullet list so it'd have to be a new/improved Example which I don't think could replace the `targets` bullet list ref.

Author: > Would this be a more appropriate place to include the foreach content?

This PR is a follow up to that one actually. I removed the `foreach` terminology here as you suggested. Maybe I'm not getting the Q? 😋

Author: > integration between this section and the targets option

Another idea is to move the main argument ino the Synopsis section but that would make the intro a bit long. Or make a **Targets** section in the description but it would have to be as compressed as the current bullet list as the Desc is already long.

Reviewer: > OK context: Actually targets is not an option (it's the one required argument) and I was kind of opposed originally to put in under Options, but @skshetry and @shcheklein beat my vote. 

yep, we didn't want to overcomplicate this and fixing two things at a time (potentially needed docs refactoring to accommodate options and arguments) and actually documenting this command. I think it's not a major priority and it's better to first discuss it in the ticket, then apply to all occurrences. WDYT?

Author: I agree, not in the scope of this PR. I'm sure it will come up again if needed.
